The Safeguarding Guide

[Hero Image] [The Safeguarding Guide. A website dedicated to increasing safeguarding best practice and sharing knowledge. A project using HTML 5 | CSS3 | Bootstrap.]

[link to live project]

Introduction

The Safeguarding Guide is my first project as part of the Code Institute Full Stack Development for the AI Augmented Developer 16 week Bootcamp. It is designed as an unassessed project over 3 days to enable me to demonstrate what I have learned in HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and AI in the first 5 weeks of the course.

The live project can be found here:

Contents:

Project Outline:

<br>

The Safeguarding Guide is a fictional organisation who's objective is to provide upto date information to both professionals and members of the public and will cover adults, children and animals. They will also provide training and community outreach. 

The final deliverable will showcase aspects of my learning from the last 5 weeks in HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and AI support. It is important that the correct design choices are made for this to ensure that the site is responsive to modern devices, adheres to accessibility requirements and is aesthetically pleasing for a user to navigate. 

Key Objectives:




UX Design 

<br>

User Stories

<br>

Colours

<br>

The colour was chosen based on the main hero image. This was to ensure all aspects could be pulled together pleasingly. I used coolors.co to generate a pallet out of the image and checked these with Colour Contrast Checker.

Main Pallet:

--white: #ffffff; text
--midnight-green: #1A4B56; background
--orange-peel: #F89900; highlight / hover

Fonts:

The font was chosen with google fonts. The font is Sour Gummy:

@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Sour+Gummy:ital,wght@0,100..900;1,100..900&display=swap');

WireFrames:

Wireframes have been drawn up on paper and images will be added to readme later.

Images:

Images have been taken from freepik. The hero image was generated by Dall-E 3 AI now part of ChatGPT. This required several iterations to create something that fitted the needs of the Hero image. I tried to use this software to create further similar images that would then remain in keeping throughout however, Dall-e now restricts you to 3 images per day without membership and this made it impratical to generate enough suitable images to remain consistent.  

Images taken to be visually pleasing and reflect brand but to avoid being distressing or triggering. Images must also promote inclusivity and avoid stereotypes. Image had to look ok on smaller screen even if edges were lost.


Features: 

Navbar: I added a navbar using bootstrap and then styled this. I added a font awesome icon to make the website name appear more appealing and filled in some of the expected links. I styled the navbar using the pallete colors and included a "contact me" button to link to a later contact page and form.

Hero Section: utilised the hero image and styled with similar styles from navbar and footer. I experimented with adding some coial media links to the edges of the hero text however even after completing this I did not like the appearance of them so I removed them.

Introduction and embedded youtube videos: I added these in order to support the introduction and provide links to further information simultaneously.

Carousel: added to provide more of a visual navigation on the homepage to other areas of the site. 

Footer: I added a basic navbar and included the font awesome icon to base the other information around. I added another "contact me" button and included some links for policy and copywrite information. I styled these and used copilot to support spacing.



